Well, there we go.
You are done.
You can close your laptop if you want,
but, don't maybe.
Cuz, actually if you'd like I
would love some feedback and
at the bottom of the readme at
the root there is a feedback form.
So please do submit
feedback on the workshop.
And I am happy to stand around here for
however longer to answer any
general questions about Remix,
about building for the web,
whatever, I am at your disposal.
Yeah, Ryan.
>> One of the features that Next.js has
is the image optimization component.
Does Remix have any?
>> Yeah, great question.
So Remix doesn't have anything
specifically for that.
And so on my website I built my own, and
it works great and I wrote about it.
The one cool thing that Remix has,
so for me let's see where's that?
This one.
For me, I am using Cloudnary and
so lots of my solution just use it
basically generates this ridiculous,
look at this thing.
That URL to make like, wow.
But yeah using the source set and
sizes properties of the image tag.
It's actually really cool, but
yeah using some of coronaries
fanciness to serve up the right image.
And Remix, you could absolutely
build your own support for
something like this
using a resource route.
And in fact, Jacob on the Remix
team has built something
that he's got a demo somewhere on GitHub.
Where he has a resource route that allows
you to change dimensions and compress and
whatever else for this specific device.
It's actually really cool and there are
packages that you can use to say here's my
user agent,
give me the best image for this.
So yes, you could build it yourself.
Eventually, Remix may have something that,
a Remix image package that just
does all that stuff for you.
Until then, my site is open source and
you can totally steal all of
this stuff if you want to.
Yep, here it is, blurable image.
It's pretty fun.
If you wanna also use Cloudinary.
This isn't actually specific
to Cloudinary necessarily.
All that I need is the image element and
a blurred data URL.
So yeah,
you could build this with anything else.
Yeah.
>> This is related to the SPA question.
If you have multiple disparate
dashboard data sources you
need on a page multiple grids,
how might you approach it?
>> Let me make sure I
understand the question.
So they're saying you have a dashboard and
multiple widgets on that dashboard
from different data sources.
Most dashboards that I'm aware of
like that will persist filters and
different things that in the URL for
very good reason.
Then you can make all your filters and
your check box selections and stuff, and
then copy paste the URL and
send it to somebody else be like here,
look at this view, whatever.
So it's useful from that angle.
And in Remix, your loader can reference
all of those things and go say,
okay, so these query prams are for
this data source.
Let me go get the data for that.
And let me go get the data for that.
You can run all those in parallel or
in concurrently with promise.all.
And so just go resolve on that stuff.
Send it up and then when the user
changes the filter and stuff,
you're gonna go revalidate and it'll
go grab the up to date data for that.
That would be my first approach at that.
The one challenge that you can run into,
if yeah, that is possible
to run into in that situation is,
what if it's just a silly amount of data.
And so you've got like a bunch of widgets
and you're just changing this one widget,
the search params for that.
And you only wanna reload the data for
that widget.
Well, you're loading all the data for
all these different widgets and
so yeah, there's,
I could see a argument to say, well,
I just wanna load the widget or
this one widget.
So that you're gonna use
a hook called useFetchers.
And that is what we're gonna talk
about in the advanced Remix workshop.
But that allows you to run
specific data fetches for
specific components and stuff.
So that would be the next thing to try and
and you could create resource routes for
each widget.
But I would totally start
with just a single loader.
It keys off of the search params goes to
get all the data and slurps it back up to
the client that would be the easiest
most straightforward approach to them.
And so on the subject of SPAs,
cuz somebody
did ask about spas and
now I'm reminded of that.
Remix has kinda funny spot with
the SPA versus MPA conversation.
So originally the web was all MPAs.
That's multi page apps.
So every page is talking
to the server generated,
maybe it's cached on the CDN, but
every single page is individual.
And we ran into some problems with that.
We talked about it a little bit with the
progressive enhancement stuff where it's
just a nicer user experience to not
have to reload every page, right?
So then we started to kind of
combine the two where you'd have
the back end framework
generate some HTML and
then you'd like sprinkle
some JavaScript in right?
And that worked not for very long, [LAUGH]
because what happens there if you have
to duplicate templates between whatever
is generating the HTML on the back end,
and whatever is updating the HTML on
the front end, which is gonna be like,
maybe it's Ruby on the back end.
And it'll be JavaScript on the front end.
And so you not only do you
have template duplication, but
you also have no way to
share that code at all.
And so they fall out of date out of sync
and it just does not work very nicely.
So we pretty quickly went from and
frankly,
still plenty of people are doing
JavaScript script sprinkles.
And a lot of those back end frameworks
are still trying to do things
through the back end framework
that like kinda makes that work.
We've got like hotwire and
life view and stuff like that.
But very quickly a lot of people moved
over to just saying hey this is so
hard to make these two work together.
I'm just gonna throw away all that
we'll just use the SPA that is a single
page app it's all JavaScript only the
client and the back end is just an API.
And my front end just hits that back end.
And then I can do transitions, cuz we
got this cool new history API thing,
push date.
And now I can navigate without having
to go back to the server all the time.
And I know that I can only ever give
a status code of 200 but I don't care.
And so for a long time that's the way I
built web apps, and I liked it that way.
I did not like the template duplication.
I did not like running
Java on my machine at all.
[LAUGH] And so I was happy with just
doing it all front end SPA only.
What Remix is doing is
it's remixing the two.
Remix is both, in particular because
of progressive enhancement, but
also because of hydration.
So it's server rendered HTML and
then it's rehydrated.
And from that point on it's a SPA so
it starts out as an MPA rehydrates,
now it's a SPA.
And there are a lot of benefits
to being in that position
where you get the benefits of
the low content layout shift.
Because if you do a SPA,
you have to load the JavaScript and
then you go load all of the data.
And typically,
you don't wanna just show a white screen.
So you're gonna show a loading spinner.
And yeah, if you showed a white screen,
that would be even worse.
So you show a loading spinner.
Then you load the data and
then you update.
That's called content layout shifts,
the content is there and then shifted.
So that's not a great user experience.
And so with Remix you get the MPA
benefits of not doing the content layout
shift with the SPA benefits of being
able to do client side transitions and
animated transitions even and all that.
So yeah anyway hopefully that answers
the question to the person who's asking
about Remix and SPAs asking question
>> Yes I was gonna say you
mentioned a few things that you
guys are already thinking about it.
What else is next for Remix?
>> What's coming up?
>> Yeah.
>> So the defer API is gonna be legit.
So this is the lever that
allows you to say, well,
I'm actually okay with
content layout shift.
Because it'll help me get
a better time to first byte.
And that's important for me, or
more often it will be, well,
that particular endpoint is really slow.
And I'd rather show the user a spinner
rather than making them wait for
the page in the first place.
And so we'll talk about that in
the Advanced Remix Workshop.
We need to make some more
examples of Server Sent Events.
Because we released support for
that a couple months ago.
And not many people are using it,
and it's actually really great for
real time use cases even multiple
user like this really cool.
As far as what else is next,
the Remix router
work that should be released very soon.
That is gonna open up a lot of these
features to people whether they
want to use a server
rendering framework or not.
So you'll be able to use error boundaries,
loaders, forms, actions.
All of this stuff in a regular react
app without having to switch over to
a server rendered and
Remix compiled thing.
Which I think it's actually really,
really cool.
It also means that we can make
adapters for other frameworks or for
non-framework if you don't want to
have a framework at all you could
just use the Remix Router itself and
have a ton of awesome features.
That work is gonna be pretty
transformative for the web, I think.
I hesitate to talk about this too much
because we haven't released anything yet.
So but I will anyway.
We are evaluating,
well we're working on making it so
that you can use Remix
with your own build tools.
So rather than requiring you to use
the Remix compiler in the package
JSON in of each of these projects
you'll see it's like Remix watch,
and Remix Dab, all Remix specific scripts.
It's all using esbuild under the hood.
Esbuild doesn't support CSS modules,
it doesn't support hot module replacement.
And so,
we'd have to build those ourselves.
And so we're instead going to
support potentially Webpack and
Vite and others so that you can
just bring in the remix conventions
in compiler into your whatever
existing bundler you have.
And get hot module
replacement CSS modules and
vanilla extract and
whatever else you wanna use.
So that work is ongoing and
very promising.
So that's another thing that I think
the ultimate goal here is Ryan and
Michael just wanted to make it so
that when they use their kids website
that it's using React router.
It's not garbage, not their kids,
the website their kids about
their kids school website.
Cuz they would like go to these websites,
and man this is not a good experience and
then they open up the dev tools.
And see that it's react
right in there I did this.
So the idea behind Remix is to make it so
that the user experience
of the web is better.
And we can only do that if we can get
people to migrate over from whatever
they're using to Remix which will
provide the better user experience.
And so
having a compiler agnostic build system,
I think is an important
step in that direction too.
So I'm excited about that also.
And in the future, Ryan actually has
a demo of this have a build lists,
experience or you don't have a build.
You can do that right now,
even with TypeScript in Deno,
and Bun actually supports Typescript and
JSX.
So you just write up a regular
React app and Bun no build and
that's really cool because you
can deploy in five seconds.
That'd be pretty rad I think, welcome
back PHP upload file to FTP server.
I just think that's pretty cool.
So that is another thing,
that's way in the future though,
if that ever does happen.
So anyway there you go.
[LAUGH] Thank you all so
much for coming to the workshop,
it has been awesome to teach you remix.
I love Remix and I feel more excited about
building for the web, than ever before.
Ten exercises is a lot, so
you should pat yourself on the back and
feel good about yourself.
And I mean that there's a lot to learn and
this material is open source and
available forever so
feel free to go through it again.
It is intended to be self paced as well.
So, if you're like what did he say or
what you've got the background and
fill in everything.
So I hope that you give Remix a try on
an actual thing that you're working on.
I think that you will really love it and
it will help you build
better web applications.
That's why I came.
So thanks everybody.
>> [APPLAUSE]